Good morning.
Okay, in this session,
we will present ways to help you
enhance the security of your software.
We're explicitly not covering security
from a system administration standpoint,
since that's a whole separate topic
and we want to focus on developers.
There are companies who provide multi-day
courses on application security.
So the best we can hope to do in this
brief session is to give you a few
signposts to help you along the way.
Also presenting will be Richard Murphy,
manager of the Data Security Group,
as well as Aaron Sigel and
Simon Cooper from Product Security.
And we'll be available after the
session for any further questions.
So we will cover security
threats and trends,
discuss the multi-user environment
in which your application runs,
give you some tips on data handling,
cover common coding pitfalls,
and mention a few system services to help
enhance the security of your application.
So let's begin.
In this section,
we'll talk about how systems can be
compromised as well as attack trends.
And the topics here can apply to
any commercial operating system.
When we talk about a security attack,
one of the first things we ask is,
"What is being attacked?" The points
of attack are going to be the main
elements in the entire system,
which is comprised of
various software layers,
as well as multiple users
and their information.
Most systems connect to the network,
making it an element to consider
when designing for security.
Let's look at the main
classes of attacks.
The first is an attack
from a remote entity.
We've seen this happen through
enabling a service such as
SSH and not using good passwords.
Or through built-in vulnerabilities
such as buffer overflows and
network-based applications.
The remote entity can then insert
malicious code to control the
system and access information.
What does this mean to you?
If your application opens
and listens on a port,
or allows itself to be updated,
or processes input from the network,
or registers a URL handler to run
functions without explicit user action,
or reveals information in
response to network queries,
then your application could be
a gateway for a remote attack.
Another type of attack is a local attack.
Here, a user on the system could
take advantage of a weakness
to gain elevated privileges.
Alternatively,
a user's information that they
thought was private could actually be
accessed by other users on the system,
including the system administrator.
With a social engineering attack,
a user on the system is influenced
to install malicious software
or divulge sensitive information
that can lead to further attacks.
The social engineering attack can
be viewed as a bridge that turns
a local vulnerability into one
that can be exploited remotely,
blurring the lines between local
and remote vulnerabilities.
Things to consider with the local or
social engineering attacks include:
Does your application even briefly
run with elevated privileges?
Does it allow code plug-ins or store
potentially valuable user information?
We've talked about
several types of attacks.
Now let's look at a few trends.
The first is that systems are becoming
more networked at higher speeds and for
longer periods of time wherever they go.
This presents an increased
window of opportunity for remote
and social engineering attacks.
It also elevates the scope of
threats from a hacked system.
Second trend: botnets.
It's no longer the sole hacker
going after a single system.
Automated tools are freely obtainable
to exploit vulnerabilities in
remote services or weak passwords.
These botnets are self-replicating.
Individuals with little or no programming
skills can build a network of around
1,000 hacked systems within a week.
We have reports of organized
crime groups running networks
of 50,000 to 80,000 bots.
Sophisticated rootkits are then
used to secure a hacked system,
protecting it from being taken
over by competing botnets.
These rootkits will gather sensitive
information through various means
and set up communication channels for
propagation and further instructions.
A group that tracks botnets
has reported the following
statistics over the last week.
So this is just over the last week.
Number of newly infected
systems by unique IP address.
2,915,791 newly infected
systems just over the past week.
They're seeing around 981 active
botnets and they're finding
around 25 new botnets each day.
The following is an example
of a 100,000 system botnet
that was recently discovered.
And in case people can't read this,
I'll read it for you.
It's dated March 30th, and it says,
"Chinese authorities said
they've arrested a man accused of
hacking into 100,000 computers.
Coordinated attacks were manipulated
by the hacker after he gained access
to the PCs through the use of a virus.
Up to 40,000 of the affected
machines may be abroad."
So with botnets, the attack trends have
evolved beyond pure OS-level
attacks to denial-of-service
attacks for fun and profit,
with the highest activity and
focus on information theft.
A lot more could be said about this,
and it's a thriving underground market.
Banks and businesses are writing
off huge sums of money due to fraud.
Certain groups are also going
after industry trade secrets,
as well as classified government
and military information.
Another trend is the growth of exploits.
It only takes a single
person to create an exploit.
That's nothing new, but with Botnets,
the exploit can now be plugged
into various bot tools for rapid
propagation within a matter of hours.
We're seeing exploits for
publicly disclosed issues appear
faster and a decrease in the
grace period after notification
before an exploit is released.
Having said that, most problems come from
exploits attacking old,
unpatched systems.
So I guess this might be a system
administration talk after all.
So to summarize,
attacks can be in the form of remote,
local, or social engineering.
Social engineering attacks can turn
a vulnerability that you thought
was only local into a remote one.
The window of opportunity for remote
attacks is increasing with more
pervasive and faster networking.
Botnets with tens of thousands
of systems are out there.
More and more, attacks are focusing in
increasingly sophisticated ways
to get valuable information.
Attack tools are easily obtainable,
and it only takes one
person to create an exploit,
which is then shared and quickly
disseminated across a large
range of attacking systems.
So with those happy thoughts in mind,
I'll now turn it over to
Richard Murphy to talk about
the multi-user environment.
Thank you.
Hello.
So I'm here to talk about
Mac OS X being multi-user,
but I'm really kind of curious.
When we started off doing this session,
we'd originally wanted to make it
to help out application developers
make their applications more secure.
In particular,
we had some requests to make of you that
would help us out in our job to help make
OS X one of the most secure OSs we have.
Because if you look at the environment,
the environment of Mac OS X is not only
the OS and the apps that we provide,
but the apps that all
of you guys provide.
How many saw Bertrand and
Scott Forstall's meeting yesterday?
Okay, you notice how they went 11 down
through one of all the things
to make your applications great?
Everybody?
Okay, we're all programmers here.
We know there has to be a zero.
Number zero, please make it secure.
So as we go through this,
keep in mind all of these things
as you're making your applications.
Okay, so Mac OS X has home directories.
This is a key component
in having a multi-user OS.
Home directories are places for
people to keep all of their stuff.
In Mac OS 9,
it used to be kind of ad hoc.
People would make certain directories,
and they'd put their documents there,
and sometimes applications would
adhere to where they put their
documents using nav services,
and sometimes they'd just bury it
inside the applications folder.
Mac OS X,
we actually partitioned or preformatted
a home directory for users.
The first thing we did is we
made a documents directory.
So if you have an application
that deals with document formats,
like Word, or possibly an accounting
program or something like that,
this is a place we expect
you to put the user's data.
Library is actually used
to keep the preferences,
logs, caches,
and anything else that needs to have
a little bit more restricted access.
Documents might want to be shared,
but preferences usually you
don't want to have shared.
You don't want to have other
people messing with it unless
it's a managed environment.
Finally, we have the public directory.
This is the place where we explicitly
made it to put shared documents.
You actually have the Dropbox in there.
Finally, we have music and movies.
We partition that out.
iTunes keeps its music
in the music directory.
If you have other applications,
it would be a good place to keep music.
And same thing with movies.
Mac OS X has a couple
home directory types.
There's normal home directories.
These are the ones that are
created by default for every user.
If you want to be a
little bit more secure,
or a lot more secure,
you can make a FileVault home directory.
FileVault home directories aren't ever
mounted till the user actually logs in.
They're encrypted on disk.
They're actually a disk image,
an encrypted disk image using AES-128.
If you store your files
into a file vault,
it adds a lot of protection.
However, if an application keeps its
temporary files in other places
other than the home directory,
you have to wonder a little
bit how safe that actually is.
So one of the things as an application
developer is make sure that if you're
dealing with users' document data,
you keep temporary files somewhere
within the user's home directory.
By default, FileVault is unreadable by
any other users on the system.
One of the other things to keep
in mind is it isn't available
if the user's logged out.
So if you want to have
a long-running process,
you'll need to make special arrangements.
Also, there's network home directories.
Network home directories are used
a lot at various institutions.
They have really different
operating semantics.
One of the things about a networked home
directory is that it can be used by two
different computers at the same time.
If a user has two
computers at their desk,
or three or four,
they can actually log into the same
home directory at the same time.
This obviously creates some
data integrity issues if
you don't program for that.
Make sure that you play well
with the user's home directory.
Don't change permissions on files.
We've seen some applications at times
whose installers will actually go out and
just because it's a little bit easier,
they make permissions 777.
It's really easy to dump files
into places that are 777.
Unfortunately,
it isn't real safe for the user's files.
So, pay attention to the permissions the
user set in their home directory.
Work well with them.
Don't change them spuriously.
And by the way, if you change them to 777
and then put them back,
is that safe?
It still leaves it open.
There's always that little bit of time
where it's open for a little bit while
you're fiddling with the permissions
that you've left the user exposed.
So make sure you play
well for the whole time.
Use the provided
directories where you can.
Don't just make things just because
we're a little bit different.
If you want to make something special
for the user to keep their documents in,
put it into the documents directory.
So if you want to group all of your
applications' files and data files,
that's a good way to do it.
But don't, in the home directory,
make another directory to keep them in.
This will help out the user.
It helps them organize their files.
I know that we want to go with
Spotlight to the nested folders
don't really matter anymore,
but if you're backing up,
nested folders do a little bit.
It really helps you find things
that you want to back up.
The user actually controls all of
their data in their home directory.
Make sure you keep this in mind.
Don't help them out
because you know better.
Don't help them out because it
makes your application easier.
Make sure you adhere to their policies.
Fast User Switching.
We introduced fast user
switching in Panther.
And we had some growing pains
while we were doing that.
All of a sudden we found a few
applications that actually used shared
memory regions that were global to
the whole system when you used them.
If you actually had two users
on the system accessing the
same application at once,
they were having data integrity
problems because the shared
memory regions were colliding.
The other thing is that a shared memory
region used in this way could be used
as a way to actually ship data between
two users that the administrator
might not want to have happen.
Or it could be a way of eavesdropping.
So while you're developing
your application,
keep in mind fast user switching,
the fact that you might be backgrounded,
the fact that multiple users might want
to use your application at the same time.
Sometimes you might not want to allow
that for licensing restrictions,
and sometimes you might
want to play off of that.
These are all business
decisions you need to make.
[Transcript missing]
Some applications actually
are really system resources.
Most backup applications, for instance,
are actually a full system resource.
They need to be able to see the whole
system image while they do their work.
In these cases,
it's far better off not to actually
have to have a user logged in in order
for the application to actually work.
When you're put into that kind of a case,
you need to demonize and move
yourself into the root bootstrap.
You have to be very careful about
when you actually put up dialogues.
We have a lot of cases right now
of dialogues popping up over the
login window and exploits of that
where people actually gain root.
We're trying to close all of these down.
Some of this is our problem.
Some of this is third-party problems.
And so keep this in mind while you're
working with your applications.
And of course, we'll be working on our
problems on that route as well.
Startup items.
/library/startupitems permissions
have actually been changed in Tiger.
We won't blindly launch startup items
that are actually writable by admin.
[Transcript missing]
You can either disable it,
or you can fix the
permissions on the spot.
If you disable it,
what happens right now is a .disabled
file gets created in the startup item,
which can be later on removed.
It's a little bit clunky,
but it actually works,
and it helps us stop the security hole.
In the future, we'd just like to not
see this happen at all.
So the other thing is
admin and normal users.
When we started out on Cheetah,
all users,
we actually created an admin account and
we created a separate normal account.
And this really,
it didn't fit well with the whole,
we're kind of like Mac OS 9 and now
we have Mac OS X and it runs about
everything at least as good as Mac OS 9.
And so we've kind of gone along
making admin users the default.
A lot of people are seeing that this
is actually a little bit of a problem,
since we offer so many opportunities
for admin users to rewrite things.
So, a lot of users are doing what
we did in the first place.
They're creating an admin account,
then they're creating
a normal user account.
Normal user accounts can simply
escalate privilege to do things.
You actually have to supply
an admin login and an admin
password in order to do so.
Normal users aren't in group admin,
so they don't have access to
some of the writable directories
that we've left out there.
Unfortunately,
what we found is a lot of applications
don't deal well with non-admin users.
Either their installers
don't do the right things as
far as authorization goes,
or the application,
once it's installed by an admin user,
the user's actually backed out,
used their admin account to install it,
and come back in as a normal user,
The application just plain doesn't work.
Usually,
this is a matter of the application
hasn't used the right directories
in the user's home directory.
If there's other reasons that
your application doesn't work,
contact your developer relations person
to help give you some advice on how to
make things work a little bit better.
We'd really like to see the normal user
operation be very good in most cases.
One of the tools you can actually
use to help yourself out in
this is the authorization APIs.
If you actually need to
temporarily escalate privilege,
you can actually make an
authorization call to do it.
The documentation for this
is at the developer website.
The other thing is that the
authorization APIs actually tie
into the authorization dialogues.
The authorization dialogues
aren't put up by your application.
They're actually put up as a
client of the security daemon.
The coolest thing about this is,
if we add different ways to authenticate,
like smart cards or biometrics
or voice recognition,
you'll get that all for
free in your application.
So, you can future-proof your application
by using the Sec APIs whenever you
have to do privilege escalation.
Keychains.
So normal keychains are per user.
Every user that has an
account gets a keychain.
And by default,
the password for that keychain is
synced with the login password.
Hence, we call it the login keychain.
In Panther and in Tiger,
the actual name of that
keychain is login.keychain.
Previous to Panther,
it was named after the user account.
You can safely change the
name of that login keychain to
login.keychain and it essentially
becomes a Panther/Tiger keychain.
But users may have
more than one keychain.
Matter of fact,
a lot of users are beginning to find
that they like to group their data.
They like to keep secure notes
in the secure note keychain.
Or they might want to move off their
certificates into a certificate keychain.
Or they might have specific web passwords
that they want to put into a separate
keychain that has tighter controls on it.
So,
when you're saving passwords for a user,
if you pass a null to the
setKeychainItemCreate call,
it'll actually save it to what's
called the default keychain.
I'll go back into that
a little bit more later.
So, some users might be a little
bit more security conscious,
and they might use multiple
keychains to group these.
So,
let's look at the special keychain types.
There's the login keychain,
which is automatically unlocked at login.
There's a thing called
the default keychain.
This is the place where the
user wants to put new items.
This is why you'd make that
call to item create with null.
Don't change that.
Don't hardwire the login keychain.
If the user set a default
to a different place,
they probably know where they want it.
An important system-wide
keychain is X.509 Anchors.
This includes all the
root certificates for CAs.
This is actually kept in
/system/library/keychains
and contains all the root
certificates that we've vetted.
Finally, there's a system keychain,
which is used by system demons in
order to keep passwords and other
private things that they need,
basically, even if there's no user
logged into the system at all.
User Keychains.
An important thing to
remember about user keychains,
this is almost like an admin note more
than an application developer's note,
is that you can't reset a password
on a user's keychain if you
don't know the original password.
There was some documentation
or some article out of,
I think it was in Macworld,
where somebody said,
Change your login keychain password
immediately because if the admin actually
gets in and changes your password,
they can get into your keychain.
That's not true.
The admin doesn't have whatever you
have set for your login and that
keychain memorized somewhere else.
They can't get into your login keychain.
Now, if you didn't change your
login password immediately,
yes, the admin presumably could
actually get at that.
The other thing is that the
security daemon acts as the
arbiter of keychain access control.
When a process actually wants
to get at a keychain item,
it actually makes a request
to the security daemon.
The security daemon evaluates an
ACL that's set on a keychain item.
This has existed since at least Cheetah.
and it determines whether or not
that particular application is
allowed to have access to the item.
There's never a point where a whole
keychain is read into the process
address space of the calling process.
It's all arbitrated through
the security daemon.
All private key operations themselves,
for SMIME and SSL and
all that kind of stuff,
are actually performed
within the security daemon,
not within the user address space.
So user keychains are excellent
places to keep passwords.
We've made them pretty darn safe.
They're triple-des protected.
And they're cryptographically strong
for the private portion of the item.
If you'll notice,
if you ever dump a keychain,
you'll have the label portion,
which might include the website,
but the password, the private portion,
is actually encrypted.
And that brings us up to data
handling with Aaron Sigel.
Thanks.
Hey, Er.
Hey.
Hi, I'm Ron Dumont,
and I'm here to talk to
you about data handling.
Basically, why should you care
what I'm about to say?
Your reputation is on the line not
only as an application developer,
but your company and also your product.
So, what are we talking about?
We're talking about two things here.
One of them is privacy,
and the other one is protection.
Both of them have
slightly different goals.
First, privacy is about keeping
your data secret.
Protection is more about stopping
someone from modifying your data
or someone from destroying it.
So, we'll go into the two first,
and then I'll show some
examples of employing them.
Privacy.
What we're talking about
is what to keep private.
Well, financial data,
intellectual property, all those things,
right?
But in a greater sense,
it's really anything you wouldn't
want to have on a billboard
on the side of the highway,
right?
I mean,
you don't want everyone to see things.
So where do people go wrong
when they're trying to employ
privacy in their applications?
Well, first of all,
If you don't use the
right file permissions,
then it's sort of game over unless
you're using encryption too.
We'll talk about that.
So basically,
if you want to keep a file secret,
you shouldn't have it world readable
unless the contents are encrypted.
Now, you shouldn't assume that the file
is not going to be accessed by anyone
because the system administrator can
override any BSD file permissions.
So if you're trying to protect
something beyond the scope
of the system administrator,
then you should probably
look into encryption.
Another place where people fall short
is by logging too much information
or providing error messages
with secret information in them.
So you have to make sure that if
you're about to log something into,
let's say, a world-readable location,
you're not about to log some sort
of secret credential in there.
Some people do employ some encryption,
but there are two places
where applications go wrong.
The first one is by not using encryption,
period.
But if they do,
sometimes they use the wrong encryption.
They think if they come up with their
own algorithm to obfuscate the data,
that's fine.
But it turns out that most of
the time people get it wrong.
It's very hard to write a
secure crypto algorithm,
and so basically you should stick
to the things that are out there,
which I'll talk about in a minute.
And finally, if you're going to handle
sensitive information,
like someone's banking information,
you should make sure you actually
employ some form of security.
You'd be surprised at the number of
applications where people just expect
that they're getting something secure,
and clear text sensitive information
is being written in world-readable
locations on their home directory.
So that's privacy.
And protection has to do
with the destruction and
modification of your data.
So you want to make
sure you're protecting,
obviously, important information,
reports, anything along those lines.
But you also have to make sure you're
protecting your system configuration
files and any resource that can
modify your system configuration.
Because obviously,
if somebody can modify your
system to make it less secure,
then your system can
be compromised easier.
And finally,
you should make sure that you're
protecting the content that
your application is creating.
You don't want to have a user,
another user on a system,
come along and blow away all of
the content that someone's just
created with your application.
So once again, where people fall short
with protection is,
first of all, just in the implementation
of the BSD file permissions.
Um...
So the first thing is you need to make
sure you have good file permissions,
and you have to make sure that
you're also protecting users from,
make sure that a piece of
data hasn't been modified.
Then you want to make sure you
sign it and that you've kept
your keys secret and all that.
In addition,
you want to make sure that obviously you
do error checking and input validation,
but Simon will talk more about those.
So we've hit privacy and protection,
and the question is sort of how
does that relate to the real world?
So here's a sample, you know,
install of an application,
and where privacy and
protection come into play.
So you can see protection has that icon,
and privacy has the little
confidential folder,
so that'll come into play here.
So first we have the application itself.
And you install it into its
directory in /applications.
And the important thing to notice here
is we have a little protection icon on it
because it's not writable by other users.
It's only writable by root.
So the reason why this is important
is because you want to make sure that
if something comes along and tries to
replace the content of this application,
like Trojan it or install some bundles
inside it or anything like that,
that it's going to have
to be authorized first.
So that's a level of protection
you have against a piece of malware
coming along or another user and
just monkeying with what you have.
Murph mentioned startup items.
This is the exact same reason why
you'd want to secure your application.
Your startup item is also executed.
It's executed as root, usually.
And if you don't have the
right permissions on it,
then it actually won't start now.
You'll have to deal
with the security fixer,
which we can talk about later.
And this is also anecdotally,
this is where Opener attacked.
So Murph mentioned that there were
issues with people inserting Trojans
into startup items directories.
This is how it happened,
because there were
insecure permissions here.
Now, obviously,
Murph mentioned that you can store
cryptographically secure information,
like you can secure private
information using the keychain.
That's where we think you
should store all credentials.
Not only because it's
cryptographically secure and it
won't be storing any passwords,
clear text on disk,
but it also has some other benefits,
like, you know,
if somebody's got it inside their
home directory in their keychain,
then they can take it with
them wherever they go,
and it's also only available when they're
mounted if they're using FileVault.
And unfortunately, though,
it's only appropriate for, you know,
passwords or secure notes, small things.
So for larger content,
you can actually create
encrypted disk images,
which are just disk
images that are encrypted,
similar to how FileVault gets
your home directory secure,
and it provides you a
level of privacy on,
on your secure content.
So where does everything else live?
This is inside the user's home directory.
Inside, their preferences should be
stored in the user domain.
The log files should be stored
in the user's log files.
Temporary items and caches should
all live in the user's cache,
and the reason for this is because,
first of all,
library has more restrictive
permissions by default,
so you don't have to worry about
other users coming in there and,
you know, modifying those files,
because this is a place where that user
specifically should be storing content.
Also, remember that just because
you've got content living inside
the user's home directory,
and it might be inside a directory
that's got good permissions,
you still want to make sure that you
encrypt anything that would be bad for,
let's say,
the administrator to come along and read.
You also want to make sure you're
encrypting other content just in
case the system gets compromised.
Privacy and protection:
There might be some resources
you'd like to have system-wide.
They should live in /library.
You shouldn't be writing
to this as a regular user.
This shouldn't have any
user-specific content in it.
Make sure you don't set it up so that
users have to replace content in these
directories or that anything in these
directories is considered secure.
By definition,
they're system-wide and meant to
be shared with multiple users.
That was just one case of privacy and
protection in the file system case,
but we actually have several different
technologies available to you to provide
privacy and protection on the network
and also with other forms of local data.
Obviously, there are different solutions,
and the right one, you know,
there are multiple
choices for each thing,
so you'd see what's appropriate
for your application.
But the important thing is
that on the technologies,
you can search for any of those on
developer.apple.com and get a lot of
information about how to use them.
This is a quick sheet that shows you
the breakdown of what they provide.
And these are all technologies
that we think you should
probably be implementing in your
application because by doing that,
you get a lot more security.
And so implementation is a large section
of an application that gets developed,
sorry, specification.
You want to specify what
you're going to use.
You want to specify using
these in your application.
But to actually talk about security
holes and how they implement themselves
when you actually go to code,
here's Simon Cooper.
I listed up there.
Thank you, Aaron.
So here's what I'm going
to talk about today.
I'm going to talk a little bit about
where security problems come from,
some common coding design pitfalls.
I'm going to cover buffer
overflows and issue overflows,
temporary file problems
with race conditions,
some feature combining
things that can happen,
and finally some
installation considerations.
So, my colleagues have been talking
about decisions you make when
you're designing your program,
the specification of your program.
So, when you actually come
and build a program,
you have a build program,
when you combine the
specification and implementation,
they're never exactly going to match.
There's always going to be some gaps.
Now, on the left-hand side here,
that's the area that your QA organization
or you will work on to eliminate,
you'll make that area smaller because
it's what the program is not doing.
You have a design for your program
and it's not meeting the expectations.
It doesn't quite make it.
So what's this other area?
This other area on the right.
This other area on the right
is things your program does,
extra things that your program does,
that you may not be aware of.
This is the area that
the bad guys work in.
This is the area where if you designed
a program to handle some string and
you pass it a really long string,
it behaves differently.
So if you take all types of
exploits and all types of problems,
buffer overflows are
the number one problem.
And their experience and time
shows that about 50% of all
problems are buffer overflows.
So they're a big area.
They've been there for a long, long time.
The first buffer overflow was in 1998.
That's a really long time ago.
And things aren't really
getting any better.
So the first thing to remember about
a buffer is it always has size.
And that size is always
greater than or equal to zero.
You can't have a negatively sized buffer.
So if you don't obey these rules,
what things go wrong?
Well, in a stack overflow,
you can modify the execution path and
you can take control of the program.
You can change function
arguments and you can modify
local data so that the program,
if it was going to go and do something
and store one piece of information,
will store something else.
Stack Overflows are
usually trivial to exploit.
That includes the PowerPC platform
as well as the Intel architecture.
Heap overflows.
They can also be exploited
in a very similar way.
It's a little harder.
You can modify program data and you
can change the flow of a program.
And I'll give you an example of how
you can change the flow of a program.
And they are very dangerous for C++ code.
And finally,
and you have to remember this,
the result of mallocing zero is not zero.
I'll come back to that.
So here's a typical
Mac OS X PowerPC stack frame.
And you can see that the
stack frame goes down.
And we have the caller,
we have parameter area,
and a linkage area.
And then it saves,
there's an area for saving registers,
and then there's local variables.
Now in this example,
we're gonna place a buffer
in the local variables area.
And when you overflow that,
what actually happens
The buffer overflow grows up in address,
and overwrites saved registers,
the linkage area, and the parameter area
of the calling routine.
So that's a stack problem.
Now, the Intel architecture is very,
very similar.
You just shuffle these
things around a little bit.
So here's a heap overflow.
Now,
the malloc routines on Mac OS X are a
little different than traditional Unixes.
The control areas actually have their
data stored separately from the area
that manages the allocation of space.
This has some advantages in that if,
for example, you're doing double freeze,
the Mac platform is usually resistant to
that kind of problem because you do not
corrupt the heat pointers because the
heat pointers are not stored the same way
as they would on a traditional platform.
However, if you do have a buffer
that gets overflowed,
you can cause problems.
So in the bottom area
here on this diagram,
there is a virtual C++ object.
which will have function pointers in it,
and if you do a heap overflow
into the next object,
then when you come and redirect through
those virtual function pointers,
you will change the flow of the program.
So you can exploit C++ programs
that are using virtual function
pointers with a heap overflow.
So what can you do to avoid
buffer and integer overflows?
So I'm going to cover C mainly,
and then I'm going to talk a little
bit about C++ and Objective-C,
and using some framework
support to handle strings.
And there's a little key here.
The green stuff is things you should use.
The red stuff is things you should avoid.
So for safer buffer handling,
we're going to talk
about some C functions.
Everything you see here on the left
is something you shouldn't use.
Things on the right are
things you should use.
So there's the standard strcat, strcopy.
Don't use those functions.
You'll also notice that I've
listed strncat and strncopy
on the left-hand side.
And I'll talk about why those
functions are not so good in a minute.
Also there's sprintf and vsprintf
and the old favorite gets.
Now going briefly back to sprintf,
most people when they want to restrict
the size of a string that they're
printing will use something like %10s.
That's actually incorrect.
What that really says there is the
minimum width that I'm going to
allocate for that string is 10.
It's not the maximum width.
So if you actually had a string
which was 20 characters long,
it would continue to
write into that area.
What you really mean in
sprintf is percent 0.10s.
To avoid that problem,
if you accidentally make that mistake,
you can use snprintf,
as is indicated on the right-hand side.
Now we're going to compare strcat
functions with strncat and strlcopy.
One last thing:
always use unsigned variables
for calculating sizes.
So here we have a very
small program snippet.
We're going to have a destination buffer,
which has space for five characters.
We have a source buffer.
And to start out,
we're going to put something tiny in it.
So what happens when we use STR copy
from the source to the destination?
What happens when we use STR in copy?
And what happens when we use STR in copy?
Well, in all three of these cases,
what actually happens is
Tiny gets copied into the buffer,
and the gray area on the
slide is the safe area,
and the red area would
indicate a buffer overflow.
So what happens when we change that
and we now use a larger string?
So in the case of strCopy, well,
it's game over, right?
You lost,
because you overflowed the buffer.
With strncopy,
something slightly different happens.
strncopy will copy the
characters into the buffer,
but it won't zero-terminate the buffer.
So you can still end up with a
problem in your code because the
string won't be zero-terminated.
If you then go and try and
use a pointer to that string,
you will walk off into the red area,
you may dereference unallocated memory,
or you may copy extra things.
For example,
if you store the password after that,
you may end up storing the password or
sending the password out somewhere else.
So that's pretty bad.
So what happens when you use strlcopy?
Well, strlcopy does the perfect thing.
It actually copies as much
of the buffer as it can,
and then it zero terminates.
And it guarantees that
it will zero terminate.
One last thing with STRL copy,
which is not true with STRN copy,
is you cannot detect in the STRN copy
case when you've got the situation
where it did not zero terminate.
So you always manually have to
add a zero termination in the
case where you're using STRN copy.
STRL copy, you don't need to do that,
and it actually returns the number
of characters that it wrote up to.
So it's much,
much safer to use STRL copy.
So now we're going to talk a
little bit about coding styles to
avoid and coding styles to use.
So on the left-hand side,
there's a couple of coding
styles that are not so good.
For example, we have a buffer.
It's 1,024 characters in size.
And then some point later in the code,
we actually make sure
that we're less than 1023.
We make sure there's room
for the trading zero there.
So we've done the right thing,
but we've used a fixed constant.
And we've used a constant that,
for example,
if we went ahead and changed it and said,
"Well, we don't actually need 1,024
characters because nobody
ever passes 1,024 characters,
and we need to reduce the
memory footprint of our program,
so we're going to change the
allocation on the stack to 512." Now,
the problem here is that there's
somewhere else in the code that
doesn't follow that change.
Also, so in the two cases,
we're using a number which is related to,
the number is related in the two cases,
but there's nothing in the code
that actually indicates that.
So on the right-hand side are two ways
to actually do this a little better.
You can either use a hash define
and then use that definition.
And in the second case,
you can actually use the sizeof
operator to automatically calculate,
the compiler will calculate that for you.
Now in the second case,
there's a fledgling
industry growing right now,
which is looking at source code analysis.
If you use things on the right-hand side,
then those tools will have a much better
chance of detecting and eliminating
that what you've written is safe.
If you do things on the left-hand side,
it will have a little harder
time figuring out whether
or not things are safe.
And the big problem with these tools
right now is that they're not very good.
They're still under development.
So they will bring up
lots of false positives.
So the more help you give them,
the easier it is if
you're using these tools.
So another kind of style that
I see quite a lot is where
you have a little function,
it doesn't do very much,
it just adds a suffix onto a buffer.
Well, when you do this,
and you do this in multiple places,
you're almost guaranteed to get
one case where you're going to
overrun the size of the buffer,
because you're not going to take into
account that when you're copying the
file name from some user-supplied
data into the original file variable,
that you're going to allocate and say,
well,
I need to make sure that there's enough
room for the extension to be added on.
So, the easy thing to remember here is
that if you're going to use strlcopy,
you're going to need to have a size.
So, you need to pass that size when
you're calling the extra function.
So, on the right-hand side here,
we pass the size through.
So now I'm going to talk
a little bit about C++,
Objective-C, and frameworks.
So for C++ you can use the
STL string handling functions to
do the allocation of memory for
you and the manipulation of memory.
But there are some problems.
And there are some problems
with encoding type,
whether you're using a char or a wchar,
and if you need to convert between
different encoding types when
you're converting back to using,
say, for example, a POSIX API,
where you need a particular
type of C string.
For Objective-C, you can use NSString.
Again, you need to care when you're
actually converting to C strings,
because if you don't
zero terminate correctly,
you can end up with problems,
and NSString will treat blobs,
and you won't necessarily get a zero
termination if you're not careful.
So when you're parsing to POSIX APIs,
there can also be some issues with
converting that string into something
that the POSIX API actually wants.
But in this particular case,
I've given an example,
you can actually ask NSString to make
sure that the encoding type actually
matches what the file system wants.
Foundation has CFString.
It's very similar to NSString,
and you can interchange
those strings together.
It can be used in plain C code.
It's a little bit messy.
It's probably not the best
string handling functions.
But it is there if you want to use it,
and you don't want to have to handle
the management of buffers yourself.
So if you remember way back,
right at the very bottom
of one of the slides,
I said the malloc of zero
The problem with buffer
overflow is that it is not zero.
There's another class of problems
which is very common and is
related to buffer overflows,
and that's an integer overflow.
And that is,
when you have a signed number,
a very large signed number,
and you add another
signed number to that,
it can actually go negative.
So if you're using signed arithmetic,
and you're doing pointer manipulation,
and you're adding things together,
all of a sudden,
if you start checking to see
whether you've reached a limit,
you can end up violating that limit
just by adding positive things together.
It seems kind of wacky,
but that really does happen.
Also, when you multiply numbers together,
you can wrap around if
you're using a 32-bit number.
So, for certain sets of N and M here,
you can actually get N and M to come out
so that when you multiply them together,
it comes out to be zero.
So the big problem is if
N and M is under user control.
So if you've got some kind of
multimedia file that's got,
let's say, an object of size M,
and you've got N of these objects,
and you carefully, in the format,
at the beginning of the format, you say,
well, there's an unsigned int for this
and an unsigned int for that,
then the user could actually
supply values in that file that
actually made it look like there
was zero objects in that file.
when in fact there was
actually some real data.
So to avoid this,
and this has happened by the way,
this really has happened in real code,
what you need to do is put
some checks in to make sure
that the user-supplied N and M,
when you're doing the arithmetic,
is not zero.
In both cases, the N and M.
And also that when you come up
with the result and you divide
it by one of the factors,
you find the other factor.
If that comes out to be true,
if that test comes out to be true,
then you can go ahead
and allocate the space.
You're not going to end up
with an integer overflow.
The other really,
really easy way to avoid this
problem is to put user-supplied
limits on the M and M variables.
So you say, well, N and M can't ever be
bigger than 1024 each,
right?
And you know that if you
multiply N and M together,
the maximum that could be is 1 megabyte,
and that's going to fit
into a 32-bit number.
So there's not a problem there.
So now we come to temporary files.
Temporary files come up a lot.
People use scratch files,
and they always want to pick the name
of that file they're going to use.
If you actually write a file into
a known location with a known
name that's publicly writable,
somebody else can get there before
you and either put a symbolic link or
put different content there that you
may read or you may end up writing.
It's actually very,
very hard to write a piece of code
that actually checks and is safe
when you're writing into a publicly
writable space with a fixed name.
I've got an example on the next slide
which shows how difficult that is.
So, with symbolic links,
there's a problem of when you check,
so for example,
a way to avoid this would be to say,
a naive way to avoid
this would be to say,
"I'm going to check to see whether
the symbolic link exists." Right?
So, I'm going to say,
I'm going to do a stat call,
actually I'm going to do an Lstat call,
and I'm going to see whether or
not there's a symbolic link there.
If there's a symbolic link there, well,
I'm going to try and erase it,
and then I'm going to create my file.
And that way I'm going to be safe.
Well, you won't be safe,
because between those two operations,
somebody else can come in and insert
a symbolic link back there again.
This is particularly a problem
when you're running as root
and you're offering services
on behalf of a particular user,
because you will have permission
to write to any file on the system.
So you have to be very, very, very,
very careful if you're running as
root and you're using temporary files.
Very careful.
So, as I said,
it's very difficult for security
creating fixed-name files
in world-writable places.
It's also dangerous to create
directories in world-writable
places with fixed names.
Now,
there's a very easy solution to this,
and there's a set of
functions called MakeSTemp,
and there's a set of related functions,
which will create a temporary
file with a random name,
which means that an attacker will not
be able to guess that name in advance
and place a symbolic link there and
make you go off and do something bad.
Now this function takes a
template string that you fill out,
and this template string has a
number of X characters in it,
and those X characters get
placed with random numbers.
And there's an example here on
the bottom of the slide where
you're creating a temporary file.
In this example here,
it's actually giving you a file
descriptor back to that file.
It will already be open for you to use.
So as I said,
I was going to give you an example
of how to write a fixed-name file
in a publicly-writable place.
This is the code for doing that,
and we will make this available
to you after the conference.
You can actually Google this and find it.
This has been very well-known.
And it appears in all
the secure coding books.
If you buy one of those
secure coding books,
you'll find a snippet of code
like this in a secure coding book.
So I'm not going to go over this.
I don't have enough time to go over this.
So finally, we come to feature combining.
So what is feature combining?
Well, feature combining is
where you take a really,
really awesome feature and you combine
it with a really wonderful feature.
and you end up coming up with an
awesomely wonderful security hole.
And that's really horrible.
Now, Apple has suffered from this.
Last year, for example,
we had cases of being able to
automatically download disk images and
then be able to use URI handlers and
redirect through those URI handlers.
And you had a combination of those
two wonderful features and you ended
up with a whole raft of exploits.
So what you need to be careful
with is if you're using a framework
that has a set of capabilities,
you need to be aware of all those
capabilities and the side effects
that those capabilities might have.
So for example,
if you're using WebKit and
you're loading a piece of HTML,
you need to make sure that if
you're not using JavaScript,
you don't have that bit
turned on in WebKit.
So finally,
one of the big things that really
gets security is complexity.
The more code you have,
the more bugs it's going to have.
And you can view security
bugs as like a small subset
of just regular types of bugs.
So the more bugs you have,
the more security bugs
you're going to have.
So if you want to make
less security bugs,
you just make your code smaller, right?
Very simple.
One of the other problems is
that if you have to create code
that's backward compatible,
you need to have two sets of code.
Well, in that situation,
how many times are you actually
checking the code paths
when you make modifications?
So testing becomes a big problem when
you start to have legacy support.
So advice is try and make your
things as simple as possible.
And if you can avoid generating
situations where you require
backwards compatibility,
rather than saying,
"I have a migration process
forwards," then please do.
Avoid having to support
multiple versions of something.
So finally, you've created your program.
There's no security bugs in it anymore
because we've done all these things.
And there are, of course,
a whole raft of other security problems,
and we unfortunately don't have time
to go through all of them today.
We would take up several days' worth
of talking to talk about all the
different types of security problems.
But now you have, let's assume you've got
a wonderful program now,
and you want to package it up
and deliver it to your customers.
Well, security doesn't end with
just writing your program.
It actually,
there are security considerations
when you're actually
delivering it to customers.
So, my colleagues talked a little
bit earlier about using secure
permissions when installing.
So when you're dumping
things down onto the disk,
you shouldn't be saying, "Oh,
it doesn't really matter
what the permissions are.
We're going to make it writable.
We'll let the user clean
that up." That's bad.
People don't like that.
So, make sure you look at all of the
permissions that you're laying down.
If directories don't exist,
make sure that those directories get
created with sensible permissions
and have sensible owners.
Do not allow modification
to your application bundle.
We can't say that enough times.
If you write inside your bundle,
all sorts of nasty things
are going to happen.
Don't modify the permissions
of system components.
That can really cause some
interesting side effects if you,
for example,
need to write something into, let's say,
I didn't think of an example,
I'm sorry about that.
So, library startup items.
Supposing you say,
I need to write something
into library startup items,
and I want everybody to be able to
modify that because I'm going to
store a preference file in there,
and I want every user to
be able to modify that.
If you change the permissions
on that directory,
well, the system now has a defense,
and it won't let you do that.
But if you do that in other areas,
you can create security problems.
Securely.
And if you ever use a temporary
file in an install script,
you've got to use the
makeSTemp functions.
Otherwise,
you're going to end up with the same
kinds of security problems that occur
when your application is running,
because the installer quite frequently
will be running with elevated privileges.
So now I'm going to wrap everything up.
So we talked about attack trends.
So they're getting
increasingly sophisticated.
They're automated.
The bad guys are going
after the user's data.
There's money in that data,
and they're going after it.
Only one person needs
to create an exploit.
They share that exploit,
then everybody can do it.
So it may be hard, a problem may be very,
very hard for two years,
and then somebody
figures out how to do it.
Then everybody can do it,
and every exploit that comes out
after that uses the knowledge
that somebody's gained.
Mac OS X is a multi-user environment.
This means there's things
going on in the background,
there are other users using the system.
It's not just you.
Use the correct locations to store
persistent and temporary data.
Use the key chain to store passwords,
secrets, and credentials.
It's a very, very good mechanism.
And if we get it wrong, well,
you can blame us, right?
If you write your own
crypto and you get it wrong,
well, it's gonna be your problem,
not our problem.
Mac OS X system services
can provide information,
privacy, and protection,
so FileVault and encrypted disk images.
and File Permissions.
And finally, secure coding.
Buffer overflows are
the number one floor.
If you can reduce the number of
buffer overflows that you have,
then you're going to reduce the
number of problems in your code
by maybe up to 50%. They really,
really do occur that often.
So coding safely provides
enhanced security,
and it does improve
your software quality.
On that original slide where I had
the specification and implementation,
you can get those two things
to come closer together if you
take care and code securely.
And finally, installation is part of
the security process.
It's an end-to-end thing you
have to take care of when
installing your applications.
So thank you very much,
and for more information,
you should... Oh,
I haven't seen this slide.
Okay.
So for more information,
the person to contact is Craig Keithley.
He's the security technology evangelist,
and his email address is up there.
And I think we can probably
put that slide back up again,
but now we're going to switch to Q&A.